---
layout: post
title: cya 18r
tags:
- Goals
date: 2019-02-02 11:20:00 +0000
---
> I realize it's already February 2019, but I wrote this back in December during my flight home to NJ, and was just avoiding putting it up here...so here it is!

A lot happened in 2018. Personally, it was a year of recovery, of finishing strong, of starting anew, and of becoming myself. Just to list some of the moments (chronologically):

- Spent the first few months of 2018 trying to move past a fallout with an important friend and feeling all sorts of loneliness. I was trying to build up my self-esteem and confidence, which had hit an all-time low at the end of 2017. Rereading what I wrote in my journal during these few months is important - it allows me to be conscious and grateful of all the growth and time since then.

- Enjoying and experiencing all the “lasts” during my final semester of college. I was able to deepen my relationships with friends that would last post-college, take on a new role as being a Pledge Educator in my fraternity, and salivate whatever time I had left being a student, care-free and feeling on top of the world.

- Mulaqat and end of Diamond Jubilee. This was a momentous occasion and helped me feel connected to my faith and religious community again. During college, I chose to take a step back from the religious sphere of my life and stopped thinking about my faith and including it in my life. I initially felt immense guilt, but that guilt subsided over time. I still knew that I wanted to “re-enter” my faith and intentionally prioritize it in my life, so this experience was exactly what I needed to ground myself and remind me of what I really want to focus on in my life.

- Finishing strong…this proved harder than I thought. Through a combination of misfortune and my own stupidity, I almost had to cancel my summer commitment in India, take on unnecessary stress, and at one point, think I wouldn’t actually graduate. But, luck was on my side (and so were my amazing parents), and I officially graduated over the summer. I also learned, that no matter what happens, nothing is insurmountable, nothing is the end of the world, and I am lucky enough to have supportive parents.

- Going to India this summer to do something bigger than myself, something that mattered. 4 years in college is amazing, but it also encloses you in a bubble, limiting your thoughts, your impact, your concern. During the end of college, I was strangely discouraged, thinking, “Is this all? Is the rest of my life already spelled out for me?” I needed to something to realize that I can have a bigger impact and more meaning in my life. And so, I was grateful that I got the opportunity to go to India this summer, as a return to my roots and as a way to broaden my perspective on what life was like for people outside of that bubble.

- Volunteering in India was an incredible experience. I learned about a new culture and a group of people became *real* to me. I learned about their lifestyle, their challenges, their values. **And it reminded me that there is no difference between any of us, beyond the circumstances of where we were born into, things outside of our control.** These people, now refugees leaving their home country, unable to finish their education or get a job, could have been born into my life, given the same opportunities as I had, and I could’ve been them. That should in fact be a reason to motivate those of us that have those opportunities, privileges, and safety to provide that for everyone. How is it fair otherwise? How can we judge others for being "uneducated" or "poor" or "desperate" when they never had the same chances as us?

- **Becoming okay with myself.** Living in Delhi for 2 months with mostly myself as company wasn’t all too bad. I had a lot of time to walk around, discover the history and culture of Delhi. I also had a lot of time to guide my thoughts and introspect. I tried to be less harsh on myself, to learn to like myself again. I was also able to keep in touch with my grandparents and that meant the world to me. I realize that if anything, I owe it to my parents, my grandparents, and all the ancestors whose shoulders I am standing on, to not get so bogged down in my personal struggles, to overcome them so that I can achieve more and propel myself and my family forward.

- New city, new job, new priorities, new Sana. I was excited to move to Seattle, partly because the city was familiar, but still new, and partly because it was a chance to start fresh and build on everything I had learned the last four years. I knew how to navigate a city, how to take care of myself, how to make new friends. I had recently learned how to be kind to myself and figured out how I wanted to carry myself and I had a new, broader outlook on what I wanted out of my career and out of my life. Combining all that, I was ready for Seattle.

- Enjoying my job and the people around me. This is massively understated when you are looking for a job and choosing something in college. You don’t realize how important it is to land on a team with people who care about your growth and your learning, give you chances and to land on a product/team you also care about. I have been incredibly lucky to like my job and my responsibilities, to have a team I can learn with, and to be at an organization I can happily stand by.

- Finding my people and my pace in Seattle. I am really lucky to have  at home in Seattle so quickly, and it’s definitely because of the people and friends around me. I am also acutely aware of the “timeline” I have in my head. Looking around me, there are so many smart, bright, recent college grads who have started their jobs at these big tech companies – just like me. It can be overwhelming to think of them as “competition” or to jump on and adopt their goals as your goals in an effort to be “successful”. This similar feeling manifested during my freshman year of college, but this time around, I’m a lot more aligned to what my personal goals are and motivated to work steadily towards them.

- What are those new goals? Someone once told me (and I’m paraphrasing) that every day, before you take an action, think for one second, *Does it bring me closer to becoming the best version of myself?* I have a crisp idea of what the best version of myself looks like – and it’s not a perfect image. A few steps I’ve taken in my daily life to actively work my way towards that is working out (running) and reading more. In 2019, I seek to make these a more consistent part of my life.  

- New adventures. New adventures happen when I put my phone down and stop scrolling Instagram. I was able to hike Havasu Falls in the Grand Canyon over Thanksgiving with my best friend and it was epic. Striving to do more of these challenging and breathtaking experiences, with people I love.
